BACK4APP_DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# 🚀 Back4App Deployment Guide - Mocka Design Platform

## 🎯 Complete Free Deployment on Back4App

Deploy all 4 microservices to **Back4App** with built-in MongoDB support.

## 📋 What You'll Get

### **Service URLs:**
- **API Gateway**: `https://api-gateway-mocka.back4app.io`
- **Design Service**: `https://design-service-mocka.back4app.io`
- **Upload Service**: `https://upload-service-mocka.back4app.io`
- **Subscription Service**: `https://subscription-service-mocka.back4app.io`

## 🏗️ Step-by-Step Deployment

### **Step 1: Create Back4App Account**
1. Go to [Back4App.com](https://www.back4app.com)
2. **Sign up** with GitHub (recommended)
3. **Verify your email**

### **Step 2: Deploy Each Service**

For **each service**, follow these steps:

#### **2.1 Deploy API Gateway**

**In Back4App Dashboard:**
1. **Create New App** → "Node.js Express"
2. **App Name**: `api-gateway-mocka`
3. **Connect GitHub Repository**: `Mocka-desgin`
4. **Branch**: `main`
5. **Root Directory**: `server/api-gateway`

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
FRONTEND_URL=https://mocka-desgin.vercel.app
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=865143657600-ohvp3fnrav83f725kp1a8k56aircomc6.apps.googleusercontent.com

# Service URLs (update after deploying other services)
DESIGN=https://design-service-mocka.back4app.io
UPLOAD=https://upload-service-mocka.back4app.io
SUBSCRIPTION=https://subscription-service-mocka.back4app.io
```

#### **2.2 Deploy Design Service**

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
# Back4App provides MongoDB automatically
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/mocka_design
JWT_SECRET=uqJhOyuWVOBTOryqI+WXH0zwFJxNQEiOi29d98oqbII=
```

#### **2.3 Deploy Upload Service**

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/mocka_design
JWT_SECRET=uqJhOyuWVOBTOryqI+WXH0zwFJxNQEiOi29d98oqbII=

# Cloudinary (sign up at cloudinary.com)
cloud_name=your-cloudinary-cloud-name
api_key=your-cloudinary-api-key
api_secret=your-cloudinary-api-secret

# AI (optional)
STABILITY_API_KEY=your-stability-ai-key
```

#### **2.4 Deploy Subscription Service**

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/mocka_design
JWT_SECRET=uqJhOyuWVOBTOryqI+WXH0zwFJxNQEiOi29d98oqbII=
FRONTEND_URL=https://mocka-desgin.vercel.app

# PayPal (sign up at developer.paypal.com)
PAYPAL_CLIENT_ID=your-paypal-client-id
PAYPAL_CLIENT_SECRET=your-paypal-client-secret
```

### **Step 3: Update API Gateway URLs**

After all services are deployed, **update API Gateway** environment variables:

```bash
DESIGN=https://design-service-mocka.back4app.io
UPLOAD=https://upload-service-mocka.back4app.io
SUBSCRIPTION=https://subscription-service-mocka.back4app.io
```

### **Step 4: Update Frontend (Vercel)**

**In Vercel** → Environment Variables:
```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://api-gateway-mocka.back4app.io
```

### **Step 5: External Services Setup**

#### **Cloudinary (Free Image Storage)**
1. Sign up at [Cloudinary.com](https://cloudinary.com)
2. Get: `cloud_name`, `api_key`, `api_secret`

#### **PayPal Developer (Payments)**
1. Sign up at [PayPal Developer](https://developer.paypal.com)
2. Create sandbox app
3. Get: `CLIENT_ID`, `CLIENT_SECRET`

## 🔧 Back4App Specific Configurations

### **Package.json Requirements**
Each service needs this in `package.json`:

```json
{
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=16.0.0"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node src/server.js"
  }
}
```

### **Port Configuration**
Back4App uses **port 1337** by default, but your code should use:
```javascript
const PORT = process.env.PORT || 1337;
```

## 💰 Free Tier Limits

- **Back4App**: 25k requests/month per app (4 apps = 100k total)
- **Cloudinary**: 25GB storage + bandwidth
- **Vercel**: Unlimited frontend
- **PayPal**: Free sandbox testing
- **Total Cost**: $0/month! 🎉

## 🎯 Deployment Order

1. ✅ **API Gateway** (basic functionality)
2. ✅ **Design Service** (core features)
3. ✅ **Upload Service** (image handling)
4. ✅ **Subscription Service** (payments)
5. ✅ **Update all URLs**
6. ✅ **Test complete system**

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### **Common Issues:**

1. **Build Fails**: Check package.json start script
2. **Database Connection**: Back4App provides MongoDB automatically
3. **Environment Variables**: Set in Back4App dashboard
4. **CORS Issues**: Already fixed in your code

### **Logs & Debugging:**
- Back4App provides **live logs** in the dashboard
- Check **"Logs"** tab for any errors

## 🎉 Success!

Your complete **Mocka Design Platform** will be live at:
- **Frontend**: `https://mocka-desgin.vercel.app`
- **API Gateway**: `https://api-gateway-mocka.back4app.io`

**Accessible worldwide, completely free!** 🌍

Commit message:

CRITICAL FIX: Add health endpoints and 0.0.0.0 binding to ALL services for Back4App

BACK4APP_DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# 🚀 Back4App Deployment Guide - Mocka Design Platform

## 🎯 Complete Free Deployment on Back4App

Deploy all 4 microservices to **Back4App** with built-in MongoDB support.

## 📋 What You'll Get

### **Service URLs:**
- **API Gateway**: `https://api-gateway-mocka.back4app.io`
- **Design Service**: `https://design-service-mocka.back4app.io`
- **Upload Service**: `https://upload-service-mocka.back4app.io`
- **Subscription Service**: `https://subscription-service-mocka.back4app.io`

## 🏗️ Step-by-Step Deployment

### **Step 1: Create Back4App Account**
1. Go to [Back4App.com](https://www.back4app.com)
2. **Sign up** with GitHub (recommended)
3. **Verify your email**

### **Step 2: Deploy Each Service**

For **each service**, follow these steps:

#### **2.1 Deploy API Gateway**

**In Back4App Dashboard:**
1. **Create New App** → "Node.js Express"
2. **App Name**: `api-gateway-mocka`
3. **Connect GitHub Repository**: `Mocka-desgin`
4. **Branch**: `main`
5. **Root Directory**: `server/api-gateway`

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
FRONTEND_URL=https://mocka-desgin.vercel.app
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=865143657600-ohvp3fnrav83f725kp1a8k56aircomc6.apps.googleusercontent.com

# Service URLs (update after deploying other services)
DESIGN=https://design-service-mocka.back4app.io
UPLOAD=https://upload-service-mocka.back4app.io
SUBSCRIPTION=https://subscription-service-mocka.back4app.io
```

#### **2.2 Deploy Design Service**

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
# Back4App provides MongoDB automatically
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/mocka_design
JWT_SECRET=uqJhOyuWVOBTOryqI+WXH0zwFJxNQEiOi29d98oqbII=
```

#### **2.3 Deploy Upload Service**

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/mocka_design
JWT_SECRET=uqJhOyuWVOBTOryqI+WXH0zwFJxNQEiOi29d98oqbII=

# Cloudinary (sign up at cloudinary.com)
cloud_name=your-cloudinary-cloud-name
api_key=your-cloudinary-api-key
api_secret=your-cloudinary-api-secret

# AI (optional)
STABILITY_API_KEY=your-stability-ai-key
```

#### **2.4 Deploy Subscription Service**

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=1337
MONGO_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/mocka_design
JWT_SECRET=uqJhOyuWVOBTOryqI+WXH0zwFJxNQEiOi29d98oqbII=
FRONTEND_URL=https://mocka-desgin.vercel.app

# PayPal (sign up at developer.paypal.com)
PAYPAL_CLIENT_ID=your-paypal-client-id
PAYPAL_CLIENT_SECRET=your-paypal-client-secret
```

### **Step 3: Update API Gateway URLs**

After all services are deployed, **update API Gateway** environment variables:

```bash
DESIGN=https://design-service-mocka.back4app.io
UPLOAD=https://upload-service-mocka.back4app.io
SUBSCRIPTION=https://subscription-service-mocka.back4app.io
```

### **Step 4: Update Frontend (Vercel)**

**In Vercel** → Environment Variables:
```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://api-gateway-mocka.back4app.io
```

### **Step 5: External Services Setup**

#### **Cloudinary (Free Image Storage)**
1. Sign up at [Cloudinary.com](https://cloudinary.com)
2. Get: `cloud_name`, `api_key`, `api_secret`

#### **PayPal Developer (Payments)**
1. Sign up at [PayPal Developer](https://developer.paypal.com)
2. Create sandbox app
3. Get: `CLIENT_ID`, `CLIENT_SECRET`

## 🔧 Back4App Specific Configurations

### **Package.json Requirements**
Each service needs this in `package.json`:

```json
{
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=16.0.0"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node src/server.js"
  }
}
```

### **Port Configuration**
Back4App uses **port 1337** by default, but your code should use:
```javascript
const PORT = process.env.PORT || 1337;
```

## 💰 Free Tier Limits

- **Back4App**: 25k requests/month per app (4 apps = 100k total)
- **Cloudinary**: 25GB storage + bandwidth
- **Vercel**: Unlimited frontend
- **PayPal**: Free sandbox testing
- **Total Cost**: $0/month! 🎉

## 🎯 Deployment Order

1. ✅ **API Gateway** (basic functionality)
2. ✅ **Design Service** (core features)
3. ✅ **Upload Service** (image handling)
4. ✅ **Subscription Service** (payments)
5. ✅ **Update all URLs**
6. ✅ **Test complete system**

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### **Common Issues:**

1. **Port 4000 Error**: If you get "trying to hit the 4000 port" error:
   - ✅ **FIXED**: Code now uses `process.env.PORT` and binds to `0.0.0.0`
   - ✅ **Health Check**: Added `/` and `/health` endpoints for monitoring
   - 🔄 **Retry**: Redeploy after latest git push (commit: 08e5973)

2. **Build Fails**: Check package.json start script
3. **Database Connection**: Back4App provides MongoDB automatically
4. **Environment Variables**: Set in Back4App dashboard
5. **CORS Issues**: Already fixed in your code

### **Deployment Health Checks:**
- **Root**: `https://your-app.back4app.io/` - Returns app status
- **Health**: `https://your-app.back4app.io/health` - Detailed service info

### **Logs & Debugging:**
- Back4App provides **live logs** in the dashboard
- Check **"Logs"** tab for any errors
- Look for `🚀 API Gateway is running on port` message

## 🎉 Success!

Your complete **Mocka Design Platform** will be live at:
- **Frontend**: `https://mocka-desgin.vercel.app`
- **API Gateway**: `https://api-gateway-mocka.back4app.io`

**Accessible worldwide, completely free!** 🌍
